Documentation Log for "A Day in Utopia"


v0.0.4:
-------
x Chapter 1 pt 2b (aka the Lana route) expanded on, one battle done, one exploration section done.
x One post-exploration scene (opportunity to become a Beyonder) done.
x Main file further divided into story subsections to reduce denseness of code.
x battleMechanics() updated to include NPC action.
x Character class updated to include Beyonder pathway choice.
x battleCounter added to keep track of events that cause changes in battle (ie low player health, NPC assistance).
x NPC switched from private to public class due to above need for accessing their variables.
x battleMechanics() also updated to include the possibility of NPC spell-usage.
x Character class changed to 1) include the MP variable, 2) make Status a string array.
x Finally rehauled the save/load function to be file-based rather than a savecode string. This makes saving and loading a lot easier as well as capable of storing more info than just eventCounter.

[bugs in this version: 1) at certain points invalid choice causes error (either skipping dialogue or creating infinite loop)]


v0.0.3:
-------
x Save function rehauled to be string instead of integer.
x Savecode generation and degradation into eventCounter array well-defined.
x Separate event counters combined into one to make save function implementation easier.
x Chapter 1 finished upto eventCounter[4] (previously c1EventCounter[2]).

[bugs in this version: 1) save function cannot keep track of character stats.
                            -solution: allowing players to reallocate stats upon loading (perhaps temporary, have to look into fixing stats as well)
                       2) giving string input for an integer option (ie: belief) causes "invalid choice" to be repeated ad-infinitum.
                            -solution: chartoint() function converts string to int by taking first character of input and subtracting '0'.



Latest changes in detail:
-------------------------
1) Chapter 1 pt 2b
x Expanded upon to include a battle and an exploration (for the slime encounter), and one battle (for the wolf encounter).
x Post-exploration scene included for slime encounter if player has collected slime remnant and conversed with Lana.
x 1.2a still not done.

2) Slime stats, Lana's emblem
x Messed around with both to make the optional battle 2 winnable but difficult.
x Lana's emblem nerfed, Slime stats adjusted.

3) Story subsections
x Current divisions are as Prologue, Chapter 1 pt 1 and 2, Chapter 1 pt 2a and Chapter 1 pt 2b (the last two being separate files as they are separate routes).

4) Character class
x In preparation for the future when the protag becomes a Beyonder and may be able to use spells, the Character class was changed to include the int variable MP which measures Mana Points of the player and is made use of in casting spells.
x The previous string Status of Character has also been changed into an array to hold multiple buffs/debuffs.

5) battleMechanics()
x Function updated to include NPC actions.
x For Lana specifically, it includes two ordinary attacks (based on ATK and MATK) and two spells (one using a Strengthened attack herself and another conferring Strengthened status to the player).
x The statusCheck() and statusAlign() functions have also beem added to Battle.cpp to ensure proper noting of player statuses during the battle, as Status has now been made an array.

6) inventoryArrange()
x Function with similar purpose as statusAlign() - to ensure that when an item is cleared, the array is reordered so that there are no empty spaces between items.

7) Saving function
x Saving is not done by asking the user to remember a savecode but by using text files to store gameplay info.
x There are three save files - save_1, save_2 and save_3. Can easily be extended into more if the game ends up having a lot of possible routes.

8) chartoint()
x Integer input is now taken from user by taking a string input whose first character is converted into an integer by subtracting '0'.
x This is to avoid infinite looping of "Invalid input" when user provides a character input when integer is required.


Things to do:
-------------
1) Complete Chapter 1 part 2b.
2) Save to file character stats + battleCounter.
3) Maybe use hit chance / effect resistance as an in-built factor to make LUCK matter in battle (currently intended as event-only factor)


Other notes:
------------
x Should 'flee' be added to battle options? This will make it user-thoughtful if randomising encounters (ie, during explorations).
  Otherwise the battles are pre-determined.
x Should there be a scalability factor for monsters? Ie, their stats increase based on the level you're at? This works for the current setting
  but would be more appropriate for a game with randomised encounters (think Tactics Ogre KoL).

x Remember 0=false, 1=true (or similar) for all integer-based functions and variables, so that consistency is ensured.

x eventCounter[0] is for Lana, 1 means captain has been spoken to, 2 means second mate has been spoken to, 3 means Lana has been given the bottle
  of essential scent, 4 means she has been saved and added to the party, 5 is anger to her revelation, 6 is for cooling down.
x eventCounter[1] is about Gehrman, 1 means you've spoken to the captain, 2 means you've spoken to Azik about it
x eventCounter[2] is about religious belief.
x eventCounter[3] is for exploring the buildings.
x eventCounter[4] is for winning the first battle with >10 HP.
x eventCounter[5] is for noticing the other buildings (ch1.pt2b).
x eventCounter[6] is for Calderón City (ch1.pt2b).

x battleCounter[0] is for if Lana is present in the party or not.
x battleCounter[1] is for situations where player starts battle at 3/4 health. (1/2 was planned, but way too challenging)


--------------
Older versions
--------------

v0.0.2:
-------
x Battle functions introduced and completed.
x Introduced randomness for hit chance and critical-hit chance.
x Chapter 1 done without c1EventCounter[1] being set (ie, no choice).
x Redid Prologue pt1 (the original story was Y/N being approved by the Society, but now their expedition is with friends + volunteers 
including one Society member, as it doesn't make narrative sense that the Society would let a non-Beyonder head an expedition to a clearly
supernatural place like Utopia).
x Included string blankSpace to space out the text paragraphs.

[bugs in this version: 1) yn() return was off due to adding "return 2;" to prevent "control reaches end of non-void function" warning
                            -solution: remove the unnecessary return, code runs in spite of warning
                       2) several issues with the battle functions, namely due to improper pointer usage and improper randomness of rand()
                            -solution: remove battle randomness, change pointer usage in functions to call by value ]


v0.0.1:
-------
x Started work.
x Built opening menu, save functions, Prologue pt1 and pt2.
x Defined the classes (Character to NPC, Protag and Monster; Item).
x shipEventCounters are set.